You can think of the large-scale game as *building* a hero strong enough to
defeat the final boss. In some ways, this is the most satisfying part of the
game because the changes here are the most persistent.

One problem now is that player has relatively little choice or control in how
they build their hero. It's basically just picking up random loot and hoping for
the best. The only real choices are what to keep and what to discard.

They do have some control over which skills to gain. And with disciplines they
have some control of which ones to train, though that's mostly not a deliberate
choice on their part.

With Minecraft or Animal Crossing, the player has a lot of choice around what
gear to acquire and work towards. They can have lots of little projects of their
own choosing and decide which to work on when.

Hauberk doesn't have that. I had hoped many years ago that monsters having
different drops would help, but that's still a very indirect level of control.
You can run away from encounters with monsters that don't stuff you don't want,
but that's about it.

So how can we make this a more interesting, controlled experience for the
player? And, in particular, can we do so in a way that leads to end-game heroes
that are *different* from each other instead of all the same?

Fundamentally, a hero is grown from two elements:

*   Found items.
*   Killing monsters, which drop items and also directly provide XP.

So giving the player more control over how the hero is grown means giving them
more control over which items they acquire and which monsters they encounter.
Crafting and quests provide new avenues for acquiring items. Multiple areas and
portals provide more control over monsters.

Portals are still pretty indirect because you don't control when the portal
shows up or which kind it is. There's no real way for the player to say, "I'm
going to work towards ___ today."

I don't want players to have *total* control over how they grow their hero. I
think serendipity and rare random artifacts are a big part of the experience.
The player may stumble onto an item that entirely changes the end-game kit they
build. But the player should have *some* ability to decide what to work on with
a little more fidelity than just "Gonna grind more today."

In particular, if a player is currently held *back* by the absence of something,
they should be able to focus on remedying that.

### Crafting

Bring back the crucible and make crafting a much more important part of the
game. Then players can focus on acquiring components for crafting recipes for
the stuff they want.

Instead of having to hope to find the right kind of armor with the right kind
of affix, you can focus on finding the right armor, and then combine it yourself
with the gem you want.

If items can be used in multiple recipes, this unlocks a *lot* more player
control around gear.

I disabled this, I think, in large part because I was overwhelmed by having to
author all of the recipes, but this is honestly likely the biggest thing I can
do to make the playthough experience feel more gratifying.

### Areas

Bring back areas so that players can choose to explore different regions to get
different stuff. Maybe even a persistent overworld with multiple dungeons. Give
some areas prerequisites that players must complete to unlock the area.

In fact, if we make areas need to be unlocked by beating other areas, killing
certain monsters, and/or getting certain items, then that opens up an entire new
level of progression. Because now it's not just growing your hero to be strong
enough to beat the last boss, you also have to unlock access to them.

Also, some areas could grant specific known rewards (or a choice from a list of
them) upon completion.

This doesn't *necessarily* mean needing to hand-author a bunch of areas. The
game could conceivably randomly generate a set of areas at player creation time
by combining dungeon generators with monster groups and picking difficulties.

### Other stuff

*   Add quests. Players can choose from a list of quests, each of which has a
    known reward.

*   Random portals in dungeons. Going through one takes you to a separate
    subdungeon with a given theme and/or reward. Players know the theme and
    reward before they enter it, so they can choose whether or not they do.

*   Treasure chests that give the hero the choice of one of a couple of items.

*   Lean more heavily on stores, buying and selling. This is direct, but is the
    least fun.

### Stats

A whole other area of player growth is stat raises. Right now, that's controlled
entirely by their race. Giving the player choice over which stats to grow is
another area to improve. One option is Diablo-style where leveling up gives you
stat points to spend as you wish.

If I do that, I have to figure out what races even do. Some options:

*   Race boosts your stats as it currently does, and player-controlled stat
    points are layered on top.

*   Make race effectively be a stat multiplier. So you have a raw stat value
    controlled by the player, but before the stat has any effect, that value is
    multiplied by some racial modifier. This means putting stat points in a
    stat that the race is strong in has a greater effect.

*   Make race limit max stats. This prevents players from maxing all stats, but
    feels punishing. Also, it has absolutely no effect until later in the game.

I like the multiplier idea a lot, but the UX of that might be challenging. The
player really wants to see the value after the multiplier. But they might be
surprised when spending a stat point doesn't have a literal +1 effect on that
number. Maybe it just means showing "here's what the stat becomes if you spend
a point here".

Could possibly show the stats as fractional values, but that feels ugly.
