Members of the mage class are the prime wielders of magic. They weave spells,
cast charms, and manufacture enchanted equipment. Becoming adept at magic
requires complete devotion, and because of this mages are weak in all other
abilities. They are generally weak, slow, and poor in combat. However, they have
command of the realm of magic, and a well-trained magician is a deadly foe.

## Play style

Mages are given access to a broad and complicated tree of spells which they can
gain and improve according to their wishes. Playing a mage is about choosing
wisely from a large number of options, with little chance and much care
involved.

## Class powers

The primary power of mages is, of course, spellcasting. Mages learn spells from
spell books. Each contains a few different spells, and books containing the most
powerful spells are quite rare.

Mages cannot cast spells directly from books. Instead, the have a limited *spell
memory*. These are the incantations they have memorized and can invoke in the
heat of battle. Spells can be added and removed from memory at will, but doing
so requires having the heavy spellbook handy and spending a few turns doing it.
Where rogues are always prepared for every situation, a mage will often
carefully prepare just the right spells for each battle.

Casting a spell spends *focus*. This regenerates relatively quickly on its own,
but is also drained when the mage is struck, especially by melee hits. It's in a
mage's interest to stay outside of the fray.

Mages tend to wield magic wands and staves. These are near useless as melee
weapons but have bonuses that reduce the focus cost or increase the intensity of
certain spells.

### Spell schools

Spells are organized into different schools. Many magic items are specific to
certain schools. A mage can use spells from any school equally well, but the
mage subclasses each specialize in one. They get a focus bonus for spells in
that school and related ones, and a penalty in others.

The schools are arranged in a wheel such that for any given primary school, it's
two neighbors are the corresponding secondary schools, and the school directly
across the wheel from the primary is its opposing school. The schools are
ordered Alchemy, Divination, Enchanting, Necromancy, Sorcery, and Conjuring.

The schools are:

* Alchemy: The magic of artifacts

    * Fire Brand: cause weapon to do elemental fire damage for a while.
    * Ice Brand: cause weapon to do elemental cold damage for a while.
    * Lightning Brand: cause weapon to do elemental lightning damage for a while.
    * Acid Brand: cause weapon to do elemental acid damage for a while.
    * Enchant Weapon: chance of increasing the bonus on a weapon permanently.
    * Enchant Armor: chance of increasing the bonus on a weapon permanently.
    * Recharge: chance of increasing the number of charges on a wand. May fail and break the item.
    * Intensify: decreases the number of charges on a wand (or rod by increasing recharge time) and increases the power of the item. May fail and break the item.
    * Transfer: transfers the magical powers of one piece of equipment to another.
    * Circle of Protection: inscribes a circle in the ground around the alchemist. All adjacent monsters suffer strike and damage penalties.
    * Combine Enchantment: attempts to transfer the damage, strike, and armor bonus from one piece of equipment to another.
    * Combine Potions: attempts to combine a number of similar potions into one stronger potion, i.e. Cure Light Wounds -> Cure Serious Wounds.

* Divination: The magic of knowledge

    * Detect Monsters: see all nearby monsters for a few turns.
    * Detect Treasure: see all nearby equipment.
    * Detect Enchantment: see all nearby enchanted equipment.
    * See Walls: see all nearby walls.
    * Foresight: raises armor by allowing character to know when and how monster will attack.
    * Examination: shows all of the info for the targeted creature.
    * Find Traps: shows nearby traps. Will also detect traps on nearby chests.
    * Unlock: unlocks the targeted door or chest. Will disarm chest if there is a known trap on it.
    * All-seeing Eye: maps and lights the entire dungeon.
    * Sense Weakness: senses any weaknesses in the targeted monster's defenses. Subsequent melee attack against that monster will do double damage.
    * Call to Relics: will see all artifacts (if any) in the dungeon.
    * Identify: shows basic information for an item.
    * Lore: shows full information for an item or artifact, including hidden powers.
    * Perception: shows detailed information about a monster including the max damage it can do in one round by each attack.

* Enchanting: The magic of nature

    * Heal: restore HP.
    * Haste Self: increase character's speed.
    * Antivenom: remove poisoned condition.
    * Sleep: puts nearby monsters to sleep.
    * Stone Skin: temporarily increases armor.
    * Enrage: enrages chosen monster. The monster will only try to melee attack the hero.
    * Mindsense: temporary ESP.
    * Charm: confuses chosen monster.
    * Hallucination: confuses all monsters in line of sight.
    * Polymorph: changes the chosen monster into a monster of a randomly chosen race.
    * Terrify: monsters in line of sight become afraid and flee hero.

* Necromancy: The magic of lifeforces

    * Drain Life: takes HP from monster and gives to character.
    * Summon Undead: summons undead monsters to fight for the character.
    * Sense Life: shows nearby living things.
    * Satisfy Hunger: satifies character's hunger.
    * Eat Life: takes HP from monster and satisfies hunger.
    * Soul Blast: sacrifices HP to create a bolt of lifeforce which damages targeted enemy.
    * Soul Storm: sacrifices HP to damage nearby enemies.
    * Weaken: slows targeted enemy.
    * Weaken All: slows all nearby enemies.
    * Putrefy: when the targeted monster is slain, it will erupt into a ball of poisonous gas whose strength is based on the strength of the monster slain.
    * Transmutation: removes poisoned condition and cures health. Only works if poisoned.

* Sorcery: The magic of raw forces

    * Lightning Bolt: attack monster with elemental lightning damage. Will arc to adjacent monsters if any.
    * Fire Ball: creates a fire ball at a chosen location. Damages all monsters within a few squares of the blast. May destroy flammable items on ground.
    * Storm: creates a lightning storm which damages all nearby enemies.
    * Gale: generates a wind which damages and pushes back adjacent enemies.
    * Icicle: fires an icicle at a chosen target. May freeze the target.

* Conjuring: The magic of space

    * Flee: moves the player to a random nearby tile.
    * Escape: like Flee but with a greater radius.
    * Banish: teleports the targeted monster away randomly.
    * Magical Grasp: teleports the chosen visible item to the hero's inventory.
    * Conjure Food: creates food in the hero's inventory.
    * Portal: opens a one-way portal back to the town.
    * Teleport Self: teleports the hero to a chosen nearby tile.
    * Teleport Monster: teleports the targeted monster to a chosen nearby tile.
    * Conjure Potion: creates a potion in the hero's inventory to help the hero's current condition: healing if wounded, antidote is poisoned, etc. Conjures a worthless potion if the hero is in good health.
    * Window Home: creates a small portal to the hero's home, allowing him to drop an item there or take an item from it.

## Subclasses

**Alchemists** are skilled in enchanting equipment, and other arts related to
modifying inanimate objects. They play by using magic outside of combat to
strengthen their defenses and increase the power of their equipment. Primary:
Alchemy. Secondary: Conjuring, Divination. Opposed: Necromancy

**Diviners** use magic to acquire obscure and secret information. They can
discern facts about the world around them and those that inhabit it. The world
is laid bare for them to view and their power is such that they may even know
where an enemy will strike before it does. They survive by taking advantage of
their enemies weak points, and by knowing the dungeon well. Primary: Divination.
Secondary: Alchemy, Enchanting. Opposed: Sorcery.

**Enchanters** encourage the magic latent in all things to bend to their will.
They are at one with the world, and can calm beasts, find food in the most arid
conditions, and even alter their own bodies. They strengthen themselves before
battle and weaken their opponents with magic. Primary: Enchanting. Secondary:
Divination, Necromancy. Opposed: Conjuring.

**Necromancers** gain their powers by harnessing the living essences of
creatures and people. They can kill with a thought, and raise the dead. They are
aggressive in battle, using the strength of their enemies as their own. Primary:
Necromancy. Secondary: Enchanting, Sorcery. Opposed: Alchemy.

**Sorcerors** manipulate magic in its purest most elemental forms. They command
the very building blocks of the earth. Fire, ice, earth, and air are their
servants. They are the most aggressive mages in battle. They use the elements as
weapons to destroy their enemies. Primary: Sorcery. Secondary: Necromancy,
Conjuring. Opposed: Divination.

**Conjurers** can move matter and living things, conjure items at their
disposal, and teleport themselves throughout the dungeon. They manipulate the
field of battle to their advantage and always have a handy item when they need
it. Primary: Conjuring. Secondary: Sorcery, Divination. Opposed: Enchanting.