I wonder if there's a way to make the dungeon rooms, or at least subsets of
them symmetric. That would help make it feel more deliberate, I think.

Ignoring decorations for now...

Within a room, a good first step is choosing to place the junctions
symmetrically. But it would be good if the rooms off those junctions were also
symmetric too, up to some point.

Maybe something like:

When a room is generated, it has a slight change of becoming a new symmetry
center. If chosen, we pick a mirroring -- horizontal, vertical, or both. The
junctions are placed on the room symmetrically.

A junction can be along a line of symmetry -- right in the centerline -- or not.

*   A non-center junction with only one axis of symmetry has a single sister
    junction and a direction of mirroring. For example:

          |
        #####
        1.|.2
        #.|.#
        #.|.#
        #####
          |

    Here, junction 1 knows about 2 (and vice versa) and knows its room needs to
    be mirrored horizontally. The child room itself doesn't need any symmetry.

*   A center junction with one axis of symmetry also has a single sister and
    direction of mirroring.

          |
        ##1##
        #.|.#
        #.|.#
        #.|.#
        ##2##
          |

    In addition, the room spawned off that junction must itself be centered
    and symmetric. (In other words, the room, when flipped along its junction
    must be identical.)

*   A non-center junction with two axes of symmetry has three sisters for the
    four corners. Each has a different direction of mirroring:

          |
        #####
        1.|.2
       ---+---
        3.|.4
        #####
          |

    Here, 1, 2, 3, and 4 are all sisters. When placing a room on 1, the same
    room should be placed on 2 horizontally flipped, placed on 3 vertically
    flipped, and placed on 4 flipped both ways.

*   A center junction with two axes of symmetry is a little weird:

          |
        ##1##
        #.|.#
       ---+---
        #.|.#
        ##2##
          |

    The simplest solution is to ignore the other axis. We could have real
    four-way symmetry here if the parent itself is four-way symmetric and
    rotate the child room 90 degrees each way and put it at all four axes, but
    that might not be worth the trouble.

When picking a junction to place a room, we look to see if its a symmetric one
(i.e. it has sisters). If it is, and the child room must be symmetric (because
the junction is on a center line), we tell the room generator to generate a
symmetric room. (Telling it pre-emptively instead of picking a random room and
testing for symmetry avoids the many many failed rooms that aren't symmetric.)
Otherwise, we let it make a normal room.

Then we try to place the room both in the main junction's location and mirrored
and off of the other sister junctions. If all succeed, we place all the rooms.
Otherwise, we try again a few times. Eventually, if we fail to preserve
symmetry, we can give up, break the symmetry and revert to treating each
junction separately. Also probably want some chance of spontaneously breaking
symmetry.

When a child room is placed symmetrically, it propagates the symmetry. Each of
its junctions become sister's of the sister child room's junctions. Instead of
tracking a list of sister junctions, it's probably better to create a Symmetry
object that represents the center point of the room, axes of symmetry, etc.
and have the junctions point to that.

Give the starting room a greater chance of becoming a symmetric room.

Symmetric regions should have better stuff and stronger monsters. They should
feel more "important" than scattered rooms, generally.
