I was talking to Jason about classes and subclasses. He suggested that there
should only be a few core classes: warrior, mage, priest, and rogue. The iconic
"primary colors" of a fantasy game. You select one of these at character
creation time.

Then, as you play, you may "earn" more specific subclasses or titles by playing
your hero in certain ways. Pretty much like how class changes work in Tactics
Ogre. So you might create a mage and then later earn the "necromancer" title
by only casting spells from that school.

I really like that this blends defining your character partially at creation
time and partially during play. I don't like that most stricly class-based
games sort of lock everything down on day one. Conversely, strictly skill-based
games give you level one characters that feel like undifferentiated clay.

This takes a middle path. You get a character that feels like a solid archetype
you can relate to at creation time. But you also have the flexibility to grow
and evolve that character based on what the RNG throws at you. Stumble onto a
great bow early in the game? Maybe you decide right then to turn your warrior
into an archer.

It also opens the possibility of earning *multiple* titles. This gives lets you
define hybrid character types and gives us a somewhat combinatorial number of
classes.

I still need to figure out what the set of earned titles is and how they work.
The basic idea I have in mind is:

- Each title has certain requirements that must be met. This is usually a
  combination of negative and positive things. Negative requirements are
  forbidden actions: if you want to be a paladin, you can't have ever killed
  using a blade. Positive ones are things you must do: to become an archer, you
  must kill 100 enemies with a box. Something like that.

  Titles need both. If they just have negative requirements, you'd earn every
  title on day one. If they just have positive requirements, it's possible to
  eventually earn all possible titles, and earning them doesn't require any
  sacrifice to get the reward.

- Once you've earned the title, it gives you some passive bonuses. The simplest
  way to do this is just improved skill proficiencies.

- You can always lose a title by failing to meet the negative requirements.

- You can earn more than one, though probably not more than two or three.

- Possibly have multiple "levels" of titles? Some titles could have another as
  a positive requirement. So you have to earn one, and then in turn can later
  earn the next one.

- One of the things I really liked about Tactics Ogre is that the professions
  range in difficulty and reward. Some are pretty easy to get but don't give
  much in return. Others require major sacrifice. I think that would be good to
  do for this. They give players a range of difficulties and greater variety in
  playthroughs. They don't need to all be balanced relative to each other. It
  sort of bakes things like "iron man" into the class system.

- One way to make titles more than just proficiency tweaks is to have them
  grant access to skills that can't be learned otherwise. Or perhaps raise the
  max level for some skills. Basically, some titles should let you do things
  that you can't do without that title.

- In Tactics Ogre, classes have stat requirements. Could do something like that
  for a baseline "can't get it too early" restriction. Many classes also require
  "emblems" which are basically rewards for certain in-game actions:

  Kill 5 Beasts
  Persuade 5 enemies
  KO an unit and use Altar of Resurrection or the Resurrection spell on them
  Kill an enemy in one hit, through damage or effects
  Kill 25 enemies
  Gain 20 levels in Training Mode
  Block or dodge 3 attacks in a row
  Fail to persuade female enemies 10 times (male units only)
  Defeat 20 targets in Training Mode
  Have one character on your team do all the killing/persuading in a battle
  Over 350 permanent STR, INT or AGI on an unit
  Have an unit counterattacked for over 75% of their total HP
  Kill 5 Dragons
  Pick up War Trophies during encounters
  Exorcise 5 Undead
  Get a kill without using equipment
  Get 3 Kills with physical attacks as a Cleric, Priest or High Priest
  Experience all 8 classes with a Dragon unit
  Heal 20 allies
  Be counterattacked 15 times
  Hit 2 enemies at once with a spear
  Survive a VS battle
  Win a battle with 2 or less units remaining in your party
  Win a VS battle
  Dodge an attack with 5% or less HP left
  Kill two enemies at once with a spell
  Experience all 14 classes with a male unit (Alphonse gains it automatically after finishing the game)
  Experience all 14 classes with a female unit
  Kill an enemy with a counterattack
  Get 5 hits in a row with a bow or crossbow
  "Resurrect" a Ghost or Zombie unit
  Kill enemies with physical and magic attacks (4 times each)
  Defeat an opponent in a VS battle
  Persuade a male unit with a female unit
  Deal more than 200 damage in one hit

### Priests and deities

This sounds very similar to how I was thinking deities would work for priests.
Following any given deity is sort of like a subclass, so it probably makes sense
to subsume priests into this system. That does raise the question of what an
untitled priest actually is.

One option is that any class can worship a deity, but priests have much higher
natural piety, so they earn deity titles, granted powers, and prayers faster?
Or maybe other classes can get granted powers, but only priests get prayers?

### Examples

Here's the old subclasses I came up with and how they might map to this.

- Warrior
  - Knight
    - Positive: Kill using heavy weapons and armor.
    - Negative: "Ungalant" kills: sleeping.
    - Reward: Reduced weight when using armor?
  - Barbarian
    - Positive: Kill without weapons.
    - Negative: Use heavy weapons and armor.
    - Reward: Better dual-wield, toughness, etc.
  - Archer
    - Positive: Kill using bow.
    - Negative: Kill using melee.
    - Reward: Better archery.
  - Smith

- Priest
  These should probably be turned into the various deities? Not sure. The
  titles are cool, so it would be nice to use them. Maybe some can be
  re-purposed for other things.
  - Paladin
    - Positive: Kill evil monsters.
    - Negative: Kill natural monsters? Use a blade?
    - Reward: "White magic" powers and prayers?
  - Druid
    - Positive: Kill unnatural monsters.
    - Negative: Kill natural monsters. Use metal equipment.
    - Reward: "Nature" powers and prayers.
  - Monk
    - Positive: Kill without weapons.
    - Negative: Use heavy weapons and armor.
    - Reward: ??? Maybe this is too close to barbarian?
  - Mystic
    - ???
  - Shaman
    - ???
  - Witch
    - ???
  - Cleric

- Rogue
  - Thief
    - Positive: Pick up treasure near living monsters. Leave dungeon with
      monsters that have been seen but not killed.
    - Negative: Killing too many monsters.
    - Reward: Better stealth and disarming skills.
  - Bard
    - ???
  - Cutpurse
    - ??? Too similar to thief?
  - Assassin
    - Positive: Kill sleeping monsters.
    - Negative: Kill non-sleeping monsters.
    - Reward: Better assassination skills.
  - Burglar
    - ??? Too similar to thief?
  - Hunter
    - Positive: Kill animals.
    - Negative: ???
    - Better slay animal disciplines? Maybe this should be a warrior title?

- Mage
  - For most mage titles, each corresponds to a spell school. The positive
    requirement is to cast a certain number of spells in that school. The
    negative is to not cast spells in the opposing school.

Note that it's not necessary for titles to actually map to classes. They could
be floating titles that aren't tied to any particular class. It would be fun to
come up with some pretty oddball ones that have really stringent off the wall
requirements.

Stuff like:

- Ascetic
  - Negative: Don't consume any items. No "Earthly possessions". No armor.
  - Positive: Survive to a certain depth.
  - Reward: Toughness, granted powers, etc.

- Berzerker
  - Positive: Kill a certain number of monsters within a certain number of
    turns.
  - Negative: Use any healing items.
  - Reward: Battle fury: damage increases as health declines.

- Arcanist
  - Positive: Cast as many different spells as possible.
  - Negative: None?
  - Reward: Slight proficiency improvement to all spells.
